<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XI: Visiting the Tophams</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Visiting the Tophams</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was nearly three o’clock of the following afternoon when Nancy Drew paused in front of the Topham residence on Highland Boulevard. She surveyed the structure with distaste.</p>
			<p>The house was a large, pretentious affair of nondescript type. It was set back from the street and seemed to look down rather aloofly upon the surrounding homes. Even a casual glance at the lawn revealed that it had been “landscaped” with a vengeance. In an effort to “do it in proper style,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham had crowded the yard with sundials, benches, bird houses, and statues.</p>
			<p>“Such lack of taste!” Nancy thought, as she walked up the path to the house.</p>
			<p>She lifted the knocker on the front door. Nancy Drew realized that the interview was apt to be an unpleasant one, and she braced herself for the ordeal.</p>
			<p>“I must be diplomatic,” she advised herself, “or I’ll not learn a thing about that clock. If they suspect what I am about, they may bounce me out on my ear!”</p>
			<p>At that moment a uniformed butler opened the door and condescendingly waited for Nancy to state her mission.</p>
			<p>“Tell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham that Miss Drew is calling,” she directed. “I am selling tickets for the charity dance. It’s one of the most important social functions of the year. I am sure <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham will wish to attend.”</p>
			<p>Nancy was forced to wait until the butler returned with permission for her to enter. As she was finally ushered into the living room, she could not help but smile at the elaborate formality, for in spite of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham’s lofty ambitions, the woman had never achieved the commanding position in society that she strove for.</p>
			<p>The room in which Nancy found herself was even more bizarre than she had anticipated. Expensive oriental rugs clashed with window draperies of a different hue. The walls were heavy with paintings which were entirely out of place in such a small room, and period furniture had been added indiscriminately.</p>
			<p>But Nancy Drew was not interested in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham’s lack of taste. As soon as the butler had left her alone she hastily glanced about. Almost at once her eye fastened upon a mantel clock which rested above the fireplace.</p>
			<p>“I wonder if that can be the Crowley clock?” Nancy thought.</p>
			<p>She rather doubted it, for the clock was too modern in appearance. She would have crossed the room to examine it, but a sound in the hall caused her to hesitate. As she heard someone coming she sank down on an uncomfortable ladder-back chair and assumed an expression of composure.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham sailed grandly into the room and after surveying her for a minute, took a seat opposite Nancy.</p>
			<p>“Well?” she demanded coldly. “What is it?”</p>
			<p>“I am selling tickets for the⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I don’t want them!” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham broke in rudely. “I can’t be handing out my money to every peddler that comes along.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham, I am not a peddler,” Nancy said cuttingly, as the color mounted to her cheeks. With difficulty she kept her temper in check. “Perhaps you didn’t understand my name. I am Nancy Drew.”</p>
			<p>“Oh.” A slight change came over <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham’s face, for she was fully aware that Carson Drew and his daughter were cordially welcomed in River Heights homes which merely tolerated the Tophams or, in a few cases, barred them. “I didn’t catch the name, Miss Drew. What is it you are selling?”</p>
			<p>“Tickets for the charity dance.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I hardly know what to say,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham hedged.</p>
			<p>It was apparent that she was afraid to offend Nancy, and yet she was unwilling to part with the money. Although the Tophams were well-to-do, it was common knowledge that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham was decidedly stingy where other persons were concerned.</p>
			<p>“How much are the tickets?”</p>
			<p>“Two dollars each.”</p>
			<p>“Why, that’s positively exorbitant!” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham protested.</p>
			<p>“But we are selling the tickets for charity,” Nancy explained. “I assure you the cause is an excellent one.”</p>
			<p>Before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham could reply, the front door opened and Isabel and Ada entered the house. Unaware of the visitor, they paused in the hall and carried on a disgruntled conversation. Evidently, they had been making social calls and were angry because some woman had refused to see them.</p>
			<p>“Her maid said she wasn’t at home, but I know she was,” Nancy heard Ada complain.</p>
			<p>The two sisters entered the living room, and when they saw Nancy stopped short and stared rudely at her. They did not speak a word of greeting.</p>
			<p>“Miss Drew is selling tickets to a dance,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham informed her daughters.</p>
			<p>“Don’t buy them,” Ada advised harshly. She had not forgotten the scene in the department store and longed to avenge herself upon Nancy, whom she considered responsible for her humiliation.</p>
			<p>“But, Ada,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham protested feebly, “I thought it might help our social standing to take a few tickets.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be silly, mother,” Ada snapped. “You’ll only waste your money. We don’t want to go, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“All right, I won’t buy the tickets. Good afternoon, Miss Drew.”</p>
			<p>Reluctantly, Nancy arose. She was somewhat taken aback at the unceremonious dismissal, for she had not accomplished the real purpose of her visit.</p>
			<p>As she turned, Nancy saw that Richard Topham blocked the door. He had entered so quietly that his arrival had been unobserved.</p>
			<p>“Just a minute, Miss Drew,” he said. “How many tickets have you there?”</p>
			<p>“Four,” Nancy gasped in surprise.</p>
			<p>“I’ll take them all.”</p>
			<p>With a grand gesture, Richard Topham opened his pocketbook and carelessly pulled out a twenty dollar bill.</p>
			<p>“Keep the change,” he ordered with assumed indifference. “Give it to the charity.”</p>
			<p>“Richard!” his wife gazed at him with disapproval. “Have you lost your mind? A twenty dollar bill!” she whispered.</p>
			<p>“It’s you who can’t see beyond your nose,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Topham retorted, but in a low voice. “You’re always trying to get into society, and then you pass up a real opportunity. This donation will get our names into the paper.”</p>
			<p>He slumped into the nearest chair, and, opening the afternoon paper, buried himself in the stock page. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham knew that the matter was closed, for she scarcely dared speak to her husband when he was absorbed in the market reports. Nancy, too, realized that she had no excuse for prolonging her stay.</p>
			<p>“I really must be going,” she said quickly. “What time is it, anyway?”</p>
			<p>“There’s a clock in front of you,” Isabel told her pointedly.</p>
			<p>“Why, so there is,” Nancy returned pleasantly. She glanced at the timepiece as though she had never seen it before. “Oh, surely that can’t be the old Crowley clock? I’m so interested in heirlooms.”</p>
			<p>“I should say not! This is a far more expensive clock than the one Josiah Crowley left us,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham informed her caller condescendingly.</p>
			<p>“Indeed? But I suppose you still have the family clock stored away in your attic. It’s so hard to part with heirlooms.” Cleverly, Nancy led <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham to further disclosures.</p>
			<p>“It wasn’t hard to part with that old-fashioned thing,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham returned.</p>
			<p>“We didn’t want it cluttering up the attic,” Isabel added. “Crowley left so much old junk.”</p>
			<p>“We considered the clock entirely out of place in our modern home,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham continued; “so we sent it up to our bungalow on Moon Lake.”</p>
			<p>Unwittingly, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Topham had given Nancy the information which she sought. The purpose of her visit accomplished, the girl politely thanked the Tophams for the purchase of the charity tickets and quickly took her leave.</p>
			<p>As she walked down the path to the street she chuckled softly to herself.</p>
			<p>“The Tophams may be old schemers, but this time they weren’t so clever! Unless I am mistaken those tickets will prove the most expensive ones they ever bought! Before they get through it may cost them the Crowley fortune!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
